An acquisition will occur when the acquirer (IslandTech) purchases a controlling interest in a targeted company (TechWave). This type of investment is normally done with motives to be more profitable. In the case of IslandTech, the Board is expecting the acquisition to increase shareholder wealth because IslandTech will become larger, and therefore gain other benefits as well.

These motives can include, firstly, the possible economies of scale. This means that with a larger combined entity, IslandTech can diversify its fixed costs, such as research and development, IT infrastructure, and marketing, through a bigger output. This can therefore provide ISlandTech with a greater bargaining power with suppliers to negotiate for discounts which can further reduce the average cost per unit. Since TechWave is a direct competitor, considering it to be a horizontal acquisition will probably make the scale benefits to be plausible. However, IslandTech can still face diseconomies of scale when operation goes beyond a certain point since economies are not unlimited, which can slow decision-making and reduce coordination.

Secondly, another gain can be in terms of an in increase in market share and market power. Taking over TechWave as a competitor, removes a rival for IslandTech and therefore can enlarge its market share. This reduced competitive pressure can provide IslandTech with a stronger pricing power, which can create some barriers for new entrants to compete in the market, therefore this validates the Board’s goal of strengthening the company’s position. However, since the two companies are direct competitors, having influence over prices, quality, and choices available for customers, competition authorities can intervene by delaying, blocking or imposing conditions on the deal (for eg laws from the Commission of Mauritius, competition Act 2007), thus reducing the benefits gained.

Additionally, the acquisition can also be favourable through the possibilities of sources of synergy. This is the creation of additional value when two firms merge, whereby the combined organisation is worth more than what the two businesses would have been separately. These acquisition gains can be in the form of revenue synergies. This means that the combined firm will be able to generate more sales compared to their individual operations, which can be for example, cross-selling to each other’s customer base, entering new market segments via TechWave’s presence, and offering a wider range of products to customers which can lead to increased customer loyalty. Moreover, these synergies can also arise by combining IslandTech’s resources with Techwaves’s technology thus allowing room for overall improvement, and innovation to their products or services. However, revenue synergies are generally considered to be uncertain, compared to some other synergies, since they relatively depend on customer behaviour, competitors’ reactions, and market conditions, which management do not control.

Furthermore, IslandTech acquiring its small competitor TechWave may also experience operating synergies. These will include reduction in costs and enhanced efficiency through the merging of certain functions such as administration, finance, human resources, procurement and distribution which therefore can eliminate duplicate expenses, since there will no longer be the need for two head offices or two payroll systems. Resources such as equipment, technical staff and R&D can be used optimally because spare capacity in one firm can absorb work from the other, thus reducing unit variable costs, while raising operating margins leading to increase in the combined firm’s cash flows, which can be re invested in shareholders’ dividends. 



Conclusion

Nevertheless, these benefits are just forecasts, and research by firms such as Mckinsey and KPMG have shown than a larger share of mergers may fail to create value for the acquirer’s shareholders, for reasons like there may still be loss of customers and staff if these stakeholders live during the transition, reducing revenue and capabilities. Also, differences in culture, operation systems, and management styles can delay decisions or create conflicts. The AOL-Time Warner merger (2000) can be an example in which expected synergies never materialised, thus leading to over-optimistic forecasts.
