WEB DEVELOPMENT LEVEL 2
Assignment: Design and Development of a Fully Functional Business Website
Total Marks: 30

1. Background
In this modern day and age, websites play an important role in the success and development of
businesses. However, many small and medium-sized enterprises do not yet have appropriate
information systems to support their business activities.
If a company wants to enter the global market, digitalisation has become increasingly important. A
professional website can provide an organisation with a global online presence and allow customers
to access information about the company, its products, services and activities at any time.
Websites can help businesses to:
 Increase their visibility.
 Reach local and international customers.
 Promote their products and services.
 Communicate with customers.
 Build a professional corporate image.
 Provide information about business activities.
 Generate customer enquiries.
 Improve customer engagement.
 Support business growth.

2. Business Scenario
You are working as an IT Specialist/Web Developer.
You have been approached by a rapidly growing company called XYZ Master, situated in Port Louis,
Mauritius. The owner of the company is Mr Alex.
XYZ Master wants to improve its digital presence and reach a larger number of customers. At
present, the company does not have a comprehensive website through which customers can obtain
information about the business.
Mr Alex has therefore requested you to design and develop a fully functional website for XYZ
Master.
The website will be used to:
1. Disseminate information about XYZ Master.
2. Present the company&#39;s products and/or services.

3. Provide information about business activities.
4. Provide company contact information.
5. Allow customers to submit enquiries online.
6. Store customer enquiries in a database.
7. Allow the owner/administrator to view submitted enquiries.
8. Provide a professional and responsive online presence.
The website must contain both a front end and a back end.

3. Assignment Task
As the IT specialist, you are required to analyse, design and develop a fully functional website for
XYZ Master.
You must use the following technologies:
Front End
 HTML5
 CSS3
 JavaScript
Back End
 PHP
 MySQL
The website must be functional and demonstrate interaction between the front end, PHP server-side
processing and MySQL database.
